Troubleshooting Checklist for Dummies 

Network and Connection Problems

0. Make sure that you are connected(either wired or wireless) to router

1. Make sure that you have set your IP to 10.9.48.___(number from 11 to 254)

2. Make sure that you have set your subnet mask to 255.0.0.0

3. Make sure that you have your default gateway set to 10.9.48.4  //sometimes

4. ON CMD, make sure you can ping the 

    a) The wireless bridge(if wireless) - 10.9.48.1
    b) The robot(cRIO) - 10.9.48.2
    c) The router - 10.9.48.4

5. Make sure robot is on

6. Make sure wireless bridge is turned on and on the right mode 

Exceptions

1. Make sure that you use MODULES not SLOTS for 4-slot cRIO and SLOTs for 8-slot
(We have problems with PWM allocation if not set correctly)

2. Make sure that the watchDog is being fed/motor safety

3. Make sure there are no conflicts in Joysticks/code 


Weird Strange Things with Robot

1. Make sure that MAE and Gyro are offsetted or modified properly

2. Make sure that there are 0 exceptions in your code

3. Put Debug.printlns(obvious much)

4. Correct Joysticks and channels(like baseJoystick should be 1 instead of 3 so that some ppl don't get confused when they move the manipulator joystick and the robot drives instead :P)

5. Make sure the battery voltage is > 12 V, if no, switch the battery lol

6. Calibrate the Joysticks :D

7. Create a test simpleRobot

8. Correct Gyro Sensitivity - Turn robot 5 revolutions, then do 1800 / raw gyro value. Now do 0.0073 / result. That is new gyro sensitivity 


Making life easier for programmers:

1. For most PIDs that need to be tuned constantly(i.e arm or drive), make a text file with the P, I, and D constants in 3 separate lines

2. Do the same for sensor offsets(i.e MAE or Gyro)

3. NEVER commit NRGDebug(or at least not the constants) more than the 1st time it's put in the project. Not a good idea

Safety Backups

1. Make sure that you have many different backups in your code. For example, if the IO board goes out(which it did in 2010 during competition),
you want to move all the IO buttons/switches to the joystick buttons so that we don't have to program on the field

2. Another example of above is if we have a complicated coded drive system, make a backup(i.e swerve-tank)

3. 

FTPing a text file to server

1. Open Command Prompt           

2. type in "cd" and then wherever your file is (i.e. "C:/Users/"etc)

3. Now type in "ftp" and then the name of your file(make sure to include ".txt")

4. Now this file should be on the cRIO :DDDDDDDD                                                                                                                                   

PID troubles

1. Go to browser and then type in http://10.9.48.2 (or whatever robot cRIO IP is)

2.  On the very left where there's a column of images, click Remote File Browser

3. On the middle column, click the file image(not the arrow)

4. Now if you have files in there(ftped to the cRIO), all you have to do is double click on right side ___PID.txt

5. Now you can actually edit the PID values(presumably P, then I, then D)

6. Save Changes(this will save you ALOT of trouble, believe me) 

Algorithmic troubles

1. When taking a transcendental function(logs and trigonometic funtions), make sure that you read the documentation as to what input/ouput the method takes(e.g. Math.cos takes in radians) and convert the input/ouput accordingly

2. 
Overall

Don't be stupid lolz :D
Plz do not enable while people are working on robot